
i'll be focusing on the points related to social pressure,industry and the international scope of the issue that also affects the gender pay gap.

so talking about the factors related to the industy,
By looking at the graph we can see that more women are pharmacist,physician and we also see that less than 10% of women working as aircraft pilots, flight engineers, architectuaral
and engineering manager. Most of the women opt for part time jobs so they tend to do jobs like social services therefore we see only a few % of women in higher positions like managers.
Also when women negotiates their salary the company doesn't like to hire them as well as most of the men receives bonuses while women doesn't receive bonuses.
more likely to be in clerical jobs and to work in the service industry.

The financial services and construction sectors typically have much higher pay gaps
Analysis of the UK's first Gender Pay Gap reports shows that the gaps vary across different business sectors, ranging from 10% in the manufacturing sector to 22.5% in the financial services sector

A 2017 study by the US National Science Foundation's annual census revealed pay gaps in different areas of science: there is a much larger proportion of men in higher-paying fields such as mathematics and computer science, the two highest-paying scientific fields

Moving on to the international scope of the issue.
The gender pay gap is not just a UK-centric issue, and understanding the international picture is becoming essential for multinational employers.
The UK's Gender Pay Gap reporting regulations came into force in April 2017, and the first reports has been published on a central government on April 2018. 
The UK regulations require private and voluntary sector employers with 250 employees or more to publish Gender Pay Gap data for their organisation on an annual basis.  
Many countries has indroduce the equal pay policy.
so there are 2 graphs one is the houly wage gap of lower income countries and the other is the median gender wage gap of lower income countries
Sri Lanka belongs to the lower income country category where the hourly wage is 33.5 and the gender wage gap is 22.2.


For the first time on 18th September 2020 international equal pay day was celebrated 
“Equal pay is essential not only for women but to build a world of dignity and justice for all.”
        - (Secretary-General of UN)


Next, social pressure women faces day to day, it's not something new, we all hear people comparing women and men working in industries.
So some of the points are......................................

